What is your full name? Helen Lewis John. Do we have permission to record this interview? Yes. Where and when were you born? Swansea in 1932. How did you meet Father Paul Satori?
I received a letter in 1979 from a friend of my Aunt Nell's. I took it to work because I didn't have time to open it.
When I read the letter I was shocked and upset as Frances was because she assumed that I had known about my Aunt Nell dying and being buried.
And the fact that Aunt Nell was a very staunch Catholic and the fact that she had just been buried without the Eucharist, the Requiem Mass, that upset us very much, both of us.
So the person I spoke with at work was a Catholic and attended the church in Haverford West.
So she took me down in our break to seek Father Saulte Tauri.
So I showed him the letter and I did explain to him that I was now a lapsed Catholic.
There was no sense, he wasn't judgmental at all, he didn't, you know, he didn't criticize or anything.
He was very, very sympathetic, very, very kind.
And he said, I'll do my best to find out what happened.
And I'll speak with you in a few days time.
Which he did.
He actually rang his brother in Swansea, who was also a priest.
And he got the information from him.
And then when he rang me again, he said that because I was a lapsed Catholic, I was no longer a Catholic, he wasn't allowed to give me a service in the church.
But he arranged for me to go to the little convent in Haverford West.
And the mother superior there conducted the service.
And it was lovely.
You know, and it, it, what did it do?
It made me, gave me the courage to say goodbye to my auntie Nell, who I loved dearly.
Yeah.
So was that your earliest memory of Father Paul Saulte Tauri?
Yes.
Did you ever meet him afterwards?
No, unfortunately.
How would you describe him as a person?
I know if you only met him the once, but what did he, what did he come across as?
He came across as a, as a very kind, outgoing person.
And I would think, I don't know, that he would have had a lovely sense of humour.
Can you think of, do you have any other stories of Father Saulte Tauri or did you have any other connection with him?
Was it just that one incident?
That was just, that was, that one incident.
That's, that's when he, the hospice was founded, I made a, I make a donation.
I've got a direct debit and I make a monthly donation to the foundation.
I feel that's, that's all I can do to say thank you to him.
That's marvellous.
That's the plan, that's excellent news.
I think that's kinda what happens you're really short étaient and told her to me.
thousands of, you know, I'm not alone, it is just my time I'm, it came across
the model didn'tovator years since I played a film and not film as much as we shown up on
a theater that Mattisa was actually took the atau wood at fantasy.